Page 1 of 2 CIRCULAR HO/38/15/(7)2026-MIRSD-POD/I/19255/2026 August 20, 2026 To, All KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs), Dear Sir/ Madam, Sub: Enabling sharing of information by KYC Registration Agencies (KRAs) with entities regulated by International Financial Services Centres Authority. 1. With reference to the subject matter, to facilitate sharing of information between SEBI registered KRAs and the entities regulated by other regulators in the financial sector, Regulation 16A(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India {KYC (Know Your Client) Registration Agency} Regulations, 2011 (“ SEBI KRA Regulations”), provides that: “16A. (1) The entities, regulated by other regulators in the financial sector specified by the Board from time to time, may access the system of KRA for undertaking KYC of their clients who engage them for financial services.” 2. Accordingly, in terms of Regulation 16A(1) of the SEBI KRA Regulations, International Financial Services Centres Authority (“ IFSCA”) is hereby specified for the purpose of the aforesaid regulation in order to enable interoperability and to facilitate sharing of information between SEBI registered KRAs and entities regulated by IFSCA. 3. In accordance with Regulation 16A(2) of the SEBI KRA Regulations, the provisions of SEBI KRA Regulations shall be applicable to all such entities which access the system of KRA for undertaking KYC of their clients who engage them for financial services. 4. All such entities accessing the system of KRA shall follow the guidelines specified in SEBI’s Master Circular dated October 12, 2023 titled “ Master Circular on Know Your Client (KYC) norms for the securities market” as amended from time to time. Page 2 of 2 5. Additionally, in respect of clients registered as Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI), all such entities accessing the system of KRA shall follow the guidelines for ‘Data Security’ specified in SEBI’s Master Circular dated May 30, 2024 for Foreign Portfolio Investors, Designated Depository Participants and Eligible Foreign Investors, as amended from time to time. 6. The provisions of this Circular shall come into force with immediate effect. 7. This Circular is issued in exercise of powers conferred under Section 11(1) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, read with Regulation 16A(1) of the SEBI KRA Regulations, to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities markets. 8. This Circular is issued with the approval of the Competent Authority. 9. This Circular is available on SEBI website at www.sebi.gov.in under the category: ‘Legal → Circulars’. Yours faithfully, Vishal Mahadev Padole General Manager 022-26449247 vishalp@sebi.gov.in
